well as we mentioned earlier Us Media is
reporting Israel has begun pumping
seawater into tunnels in Gaza used by
Hamas they've cited unnamed us officials
who say Israelis are testing the
targeted flooding of tunnels on a
limited basis Israeli forces haven't
commented on the report so far but
Israel has claimed Hamas is using
tunnels under Gaza to hide captives
Fighters and
weapons in Washington earlier US
President Joe Biden was asked about the
possibility there could still be some
captives held inside the
tunnels there is assertions being made
that there's quite sure there are no
hostages in any of these tunnels uh but
I don't know that for a fact I do know
that though every civilian death is an
absolute tragedy and Israel stated its
intent as I said to uh to match its uh
its words with h its intent with word
with actions
that's why uh that's why I was that's
what I was talking about today just as
John hendin joins us now live from
Washington DC so John what overall
position is the Biden Administration
taking on the issue of flooding
tunnels well Sammy the Biden
Administration has been critical of the
civilian deaths going on in Gaza and
President Biden called them
indiscriminate some of those attacks so
while Israel has tried to destroy some
of those tunnels with air strikes liquid
explosives it's gone in there with
robots dogs and drones the
administration seems less critical of
the idea of flooding those tunnels with
water if there are no host captives
there as you heard the the president
talk about just in that sound bite the
concern seems to be that as long as
civilians aren't killed they don't mind
those tunnels being flooded so they
cannot be used for Hamas Fighters um
there are environmental concern concerns
however that have been brought up you
heard them a little bit earlier uh there
are concerns that that salt waterer
could get into the groundwater and the
aquifers that it could pollute farmland
and that it could cause structural
problems to buildings so there are
certainly concerns there but so far all
we've heard from the Biden
Administration is concerns that there
might be captives kept in those tunnels
and you heard the president say he could
not vouch for the fact that there are
none down there all right thanks so much
John
hendren let's bring in now Elijah MZ
he's a military and political risk
analyst joins us live from Brussels good
to have you with us so first of all
let's start with the question of how
well prepared or not might Hamas be for
this kind of
situation thank you for having me I
don't think the situation of flooding
the tunnels had any military value
in favor of the Israelis or
counterproductive for Hamas first of all
we have seen how the Israelis have
occupied the north of Gaza and part of
the South and yet in the north we have
seen the most detrimental attacks
against the Israeli occupation forces
from the same area that Israel is
occupying secondly we've seen how the
Israelis on television have flooded
already tunnels and we have seen that
had no effect whatsoever of on the
military performance of Hass because
they still attacking the Israeli forces
and they inflicting a very heavy
casualties on them uh third it helps the
Israeli Army to relax because they think
they flooded these tunnels they blew
them up and then Hamas has been defeated
on the contrary we've seen always again
the attacks when these Israelis are very
relaxed that takes us to another Point
what is the real in intention of the
Israelis to kill all the soldier
prisoners that are under the ground
because they are under the ground and
they are above the ground we have heard
from the testimony of the Israeli
captive that have been released that
some of them were in tunnels and they
War for many kilometers which mean all
these tunnel can be linked and can
feeling and this is why we've seen so
many attacks from Hamas in small group
in different areas
simultaneously now the question is what
is Israel's final objective for the
future of Gama of Gaza so in in what
they are doing they causing a serious
humanitarian um disaster because they
are indeed shaking the foundation and
the civilian infrastructure which mean
they don't want the people people that
are living in Gaza to return or they
want to leave it as a no man land or
perhaps if they agree on the ceasefire
at a certain point they want them first
to suffer daily secondly to dependent
always on the supply of water that comes
from the Israelis secondly they are
indeed destroying the natural Water
Resources that's what if I could jump in
how how much of a serious threat is this
to gaza's freshwater Supply how long
does the do we know what the quantity of
flooding that's going on the in various
reports but do we know how
long we have how big the window is
before one would be worried that even
the freshwater resources that do exist
in Gaza are likely to now be
contaminated well the fresh s uh water
is already very little in Gaza we've
seen how the United Nation is supplying
along with other humanitarian
organization Gaza with fresh water
because they don't have enough secondly
we've seen how the Israelis on the first
day of the attack they said we are
cutting the water committing a war crime
and crime against humanity by indicating
how much Gaza is in need of water and
how the Israelis are aware how much Gaza
needs them to supply the water so being
aware of the scarcity of the water is
something that is extremely significant
because it show how the Israelis really
give a damn about accountability or
international law now the area is very
close to the Sea because it's a strip
and it is extended on the long of the
shore and when the situation is like
that for any building it means already
that there is high uh potentiality to
have salt water when people try to dig
their own well this is why CES an issue
Elijah what about to any hopes for
reconstruction at some point how much of
a challenge would it be if there has
been flooding of seawater through
tunnels or through the infrastructure
underground infrastructure of
Gaza well already when uh construction
are built on uh a on Sand is already
requiring a lot of uh construction
effort to consolidate the bases and it's
always uh important to consolidate the
building when it is constructed this is
why Gaza needs a lot of cement that the
Israelis were not providing and this is
why before the beginning of the war we
had more or less 100,000 Palestinian
without home because they were delaying
the construction for the lack of
material so by flooding the foundation
of Gaza it means adding more problems to
the already existing problem the
advantage for Hamas is why they dig so
many tunnels because the Earth is very
soft by being soft it is detrimental for
the civilians to have all this flood
under their knees by these reades who
are very much aware what they are doing
but they really don't care so they
understand the damage they are causing
to the Palestinian civilians all right
thank you so much Elijah
Maia